[MUSIC]
Hello and welcome back.
In this video I'll be teaching you the
different, conditional statements that you
can do within, Python.
The most important thing with a language,
is the ability to do a conditional
statement because it allows you to do
comparisons, it allows you to do checks.
And all of these condone to Boolean
expressions
which is whether something is true or
false.
So, the first thing that we need to do is
set up two
variables and we're going to call those a
and b hyphen zero and one.
And zero and one are just two random
numbers, you can use anything you like.
You can strings, you could use.
You could use integers, you could use
floats.
You can use anything you want.
You an even use [UNKNOWN], if you choose
to.
But, I'm going to using numbers, because
it allows us to, me
to demonstrate, more things than, say, a
string would allow to me demonstrate.
So, if and this is the conditional
statement which we're going to be using.
It's the most powerful one along with what
we're
going to cover in the next video, which is
else.
And if is basically, it checks whether
something is equal to true.
So, if A is equal to B and then you have
to put a colon at the end.
And that tells it that the conditional
statement
has ended and the code block has started.
And the code blockers just, and section
code which gets ran, if it's something is
true, so if a is equal to b, then we're
just going
to print true and if we run this, you
won't get anything printed out
and the reason why nothings printed out is
simply because that is not true.
So there is a keyword within Python which
you can do to combat this.
And if you're looking for something to be
false and is not, and
here's you'll see it is now being printed
out is what you'd expect.
Now this print could have anything, you
could have
any codeblock going on within this, you
can have.
Variables changing their value for
example.
You have all sorts of things happen here,
but we're just going to keep the example
here.
It's just going to have printing it as
true.
So, because we have the not, there's also
other keywords we can
use such as and, and or which I'll
demonstrate in a few moments.
But if we just Delete that and, and we
Copy and Paste this code over a couple
times, and
we'll carry on, I'll show you, the best is
in demonstrations, what you can do with
the condition statements.
Now, you'll notice that this has to be on
a new line.
If this is not on a new line, if this is
indented here like this, then it'll run
within this code block.
This code block here is set out to be so
that
all of this code here is run if this is
true.
What we want, is if this is true, to run
this,
and if it isn't true, then it will carry
on moving.
And if it is true, it'll run this and then
carry on moving.
So that is what an if statement does, it
executes whatever character's within it,
and then moves to the next line, executes
whatever line, whatever code is there.
And it keeps moving itself down the page.
It is a bit progressive.
It's constantly through the page.
So now because we have checked, if
something is equal to something, and we've
checked
if something is not equal to something, we
can do that again without using keywords.
We can do that by using the exclamation
point, and the equal sign.
And that checks if something is not equal
to something else.
So you'll see here, you get the true
output again,
and that is from the second statement
which we've done there.
Now, because it's numerical, you can also
do it less than and greater than.
And the way that we do that is just using
standard lesser and
greater than symbols, and they will both
do what you'd expect them to do.
However, less than or greater than do not
actually cover if something is the same
as.
So there's two ways in which you can do
that.
The main way in which you'll probably use
is if is greater than or equal to.
Oh sorry, A is greater than or equal to B.
Then you'll do that.
I'll just, put a sentence in here so you
can actually see what happens.
And if we run that you'll see nothing is
output here, and this is because that
is less than, A is less than B so if we
change that line to less than.
You'll see this is true, and that's the
output we expect from here.
However, what you, might have expected,
since I mentioned before
about the not, and, and or keywords, is,
if we had, is equal to,
or, if A is greater than B, and that
should be less than.
If A is less then B, then if we run that
we get the exact same output.
So, that shows that less than and equal to
are the same operator.
So, that is exactly the same as how it was
before.
A different way of writing it,
and again, this, the opposite which is a
greater then or equal to.
Now, you have to remember that if you were
to do equals and then greater that.
So if you were to do a symbol, [SOUND]
like that, it would not work.
You cannot have it set out in the
opposite direction, because it simply will
not and run.
That doesn't mean anything within Python,
it has to be
greater than or equal to and less than or
equal to.
So, it has to be in the order in which you
would say it.
The next one that we have is whether or
not.
two, two things are equal and that is the
and key word so if this and B
is going to be one, then what you'd expect
here is a true.
However, a true does not appear because, B
is equal to one.
If we set B equal to two.
Then you'll text get.
Okay, and this isn't gonna be true either,
because A is not equal to B.
If we put tree at B at two as well, then
you get another true output here.
So, as you can see, there is a whole
range in which, in ways to do comparisons
within Python.
And these are the main methods in which
you will be able to do it.
I recommend that if you can avoid not
using
the and, or, and not key words, to avoid
it.
However, the not, the and key word, there
isn't a way to avoid
that, you have to use it if you want to
compare two things.
However, or, there's quite often a way in
which you can avoid it.
If there isn't, then obviously it's fine
to use it.
And just make sure that you use it
properly, and
you use it in the right points in the
statement.
All operators and operands must be
together.
So, and this is an operator, and this is
an operand.
No sorry, this is an operand, and these
are operators.
And, altogether this makes something
called an op code.
And all out codes must be complete.
So it must be equal to true or false.
Because that is how any if statement
works.
So this here, if we hover over you can
find that this is true.
We hover over this one, it says this is
true as well.
If we hover over this one, this is true.
And if we hover over this one, we get that
this is true.
We get a constant output here of where
things are true, and why things are not
true.
So, it's always worth looking at something
to find out whether or not what we
are actually outputting is valid, and if
it
is valid then you've written the code
correctly.
However, if it's not valid then just
quickly
look over and you'll probably see a
mistake.
Such as if you're to do, [UNKNOWN] tag it
quickly and you had a single
equal sign, and you had something like red
underline here where it's not valid code.
It simply can't run because a single
equals
sign means an assignment not a conditional
operator.
So make sure that you always have two
equals signs for example, and that sort of
thing.
Quite an easy mistake to make and it is
one that does break your program.
So, it was easy enough to diagnose and
find later.
But, just make sure while you are typing
that you are doing all these operators
properly.
And, that while you're using these
operators that the best
thing to do is to just have it, so that
you think about things in a logical order.
So like I mentioned for greater than or
equal to and
less than or equal to, if you say it in
your
head, you sort of get the order right,
because if you
were to do it the wrong way around, it
would not work.
Okay, so thank you for watching this
video, I'm
Max Bose from learntoprogram.tv, and I'll
see you soon.
[MUSIC]